docs/book/src/basics/commonly_used_library_types.md, before:

# Commonly Used Library Types

The Sway Standard Library is the foundation of portable Sway software, a set of minimal shared abstractions for the broader Sway ecosystem. It offers core types, library-defined operations on language primitives, native asset management, blockchain contextual operations, access control, storage management, and support for types from other VMs, among many other things. Reference the standard library docs [here](https://fuellabs.github.io/sway/master/std/index.html).

## `Result<T, E>`

<!-- This section should explain what the `Result` type is -->
<!-- result:example:start -->
Type `Result` is the type used for returning and propagating errors. It is an `enum` with two variants: `Ok(T)`, representing success and containing a value, and `Err(E)`, representing error and containing an error value. The `T` and `E` in this definition are type parameters, allowing `Result` to be generic and to be used with any types.
<!-- result:example:end -->

```sway
{{#include ../../../../sway-lib-std/src/result.sw:docs_result}}
```

<!-- This section should explain when to use the `Result` type -->
<!-- use_result:example:start -->
Functions return `Result` whenever errors are expected and recoverable.
<!-- use_result:example:end -->

Take the following example:

```sway
{{#include ../../../../examples/result/src/main.sw}}
```

## `Option<T>`

<!-- This section should explain the `Option` type -->
<!-- option:example:start -->
Type `Option` represents an optional value: every `Option` is either `Some` and contains a value, or `None`, and does not. `Option` types are very common in Sway code, as they have a number of uses:

- Initial values where `None` can be used as an initializer.
- Return value for otherwise reporting simple errors, where `None` is returned on error.

The implementation of `Option` matches on the variant: if it's `Ok` it returns the inner value, if it's `None`, it [reverts](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-specs/blob/master/src/fuel-vm/instruction-set.md#rvrt-revert).
<!-- option:example:end -->

```sway
{{#include ../../../../sway-lib-std/src/option.sw:docs_option}}
```

<!-- This section should explain when to use the `Option` type -->
<!-- use_option:example:start -->
`Option` is commonly paired with pattern matching to query the presence of a value and take action, allowing developers to choose how to handle the `None` case.
<!-- use_option:example:end -->

Below is an example that uses pattern matching to handle invalid divisions by 0 by returning an `Option`:

```sway
{{#include ../../../../examples/option/src/main.sw}}
```

Commit message:

Add docs for error handling (ABI errors, `panic`, `error_type`, `error`) (#7249)
## Description

This PR:
- Adds a new "Error handling" page to "Sway Language Basics".
- Updates all references to ABI errors.
- Extends the "Breaking Release Checklist" with documentation related
checks.

## Checklist

- [ ] I have linked to any relevant issues.
- [ ] I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand
areas.
- [x] I have updated the documentation where relevant (API docs, the
reference, and the Sway book).
- [x] If my change requires substantial documentation changes, I have
[requested support from the DevRel
team](https://github.com/FuelLabs/devrel-requests/issues/new/choose)
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my
feature works.
- [ ] I have added (or requested a maintainer to add) the necessary
`Breaking*` or `New Feature` labels where relevant.
- [x] I have done my best to ensure that my PR adheres to [the Fuel Labs
Code Review
Standards](https://github.com/FuelLabs/rfcs/blob/master/text/code-standards/external-contributors.md).
- [x] I have requested a review from the relevant team or maintainers.

docs/book/src/basics/commonly_used_library_types.md, after:

# Commonly Used Library Types

The Sway Standard Library is the foundation of portable Sway software, a set of minimal shared abstractions for the broader Sway ecosystem. It offers core types, library-defined operations on language primitives, native asset management, blockchain contextual operations, access control, storage management, and support for types from other VMs, among many other things. Reference the standard library docs [here](https://fuellabs.github.io/sway/master/std/index.html).

## `Result<T, E>`

<!-- This section should explain what the `Result` type is -->
<!-- result:example:start -->
Type `Result` is the type used for returning and propagating recoverable errors. It is an `enum` with two variants: `Ok(T)`, representing success and containing a value, and `Err(E)`, representing error and containing an error value. The `T` and `E` in this definition are type parameters, allowing `Result` to be generic and to be used with any types.
<!-- result:example:end -->

```sway
{{#include ../../../../sway-lib-std/src/result.sw:docs_result}}
```

<!-- This section should explain when to use the `Result` type -->
<!-- use_result:example:start -->
Functions return `Result` whenever errors are expected and recoverable.
<!-- use_result:example:end -->

Take the following example:

```sway
{{#include ../../../../examples/result/src/main.sw}}
```

To learn more about expressing irrecoverable errors in Sway, see the chapter on [Error Handling](error_handling.md).

## `Option<T>`

<!-- This section should explain the `Option` type -->
<!-- option:example:start -->
Type `Option` represents an optional value: every `Option` is either `Some` and contains a value, or `None`, and does not. `Option` types are very common in Sway code, as they have a number of uses:

- Initial values where `None` can be used as an initializer.
- Return value for otherwise reporting simple errors, where `None` is returned on error.

The implementation of `Option` matches on the variant: if it's `Ok` it returns the inner value, if it's `None`, it [reverts](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-specs/blob/master/src/fuel-vm/instruction-set.md#rvrt-revert).
<!-- option:example:end -->

```sway
{{#include ../../../../sway-lib-std/src/option.sw:docs_option}}
```

<!-- This section should explain when to use the `Option` type -->
<!-- use_option:example:start -->
`Option` is commonly paired with pattern matching to query the presence of a value and take action, allowing developers to choose how to handle the `None` case.
<!-- use_option:example:end -->

Below is an example that uses pattern matching to handle invalid divisions by 0 by returning an `Option`:

```sway
{{#include ../../../../examples/option/src/main.sw}}
```
