# Variables

Variables in Sway are _immutable by default_. This means that, by default, once a variable is declared, its value cannot change. This is one of the ways how Sway encourages safe programming, and many modern languages have this same default. Let's take a look at variables in detail.

## Declaring a Variable

Let's look at a variable declaration:

```sway
let foo = 5;
```

Great! We have just declared a variable, `foo`. What do we know about `foo`?

1. It is immutable.
1. Its value is `5`.
1. Its type is `u64`, a 64-bit unsigned integer.

`u64` is the default numeric type, and represents a 64-bit unsigned integer. See the section [Built-in Types](./built_in_types.md) for more details.

We can also make a mutable variable. Let's take a look:

```sway
let mut foo = 5;
foo = 6;
```

Now, `foo` is mutable, and the reassignment to the number `6` is valid. That is, we are allowed to _mutate_ the variable `foo` to change its value.

## Type Annotations

A variable declaration can contain a _type annotation_. A type annotation serves the purpose of declaring the type, in addition to the value, of a variable. Let's take a look:

```sway
let foo: u32 = 5;
```

We have just declared the _type_ of the variable `foo` as a `u32`, which is an unsigned 32-bit integer. Let's take a look at a few other type annotations:

```sway
let bar: str[4] = "sway";
let baz: bool = true;
```

If the value declared cannot be assigned to the declared type, there will be an error generated by the compiler.

## Configurable Constants

Configurable constants are special constants that behave like regular constants in the sense that they cannot change during program execution, but they can be configured _after_ the Sway program has been built. The Rust and TS SDKs allow updating the values of these constants by injecting new values for them directly in the bytecode without having to build the program again. These are useful for contract factories and behave somewhat similarly to `immutable` variables from languages like Solidity.

Configurable constants are declared inside a `configurable` block and require a type ascription and an initializer as follows:

```sway
{{#include ../../../../examples/configurable_constants/src/main.sw:configurable_block}}
```

At most one `configurable` block is allowed in a Sway project. Moreover, `configurable` blocks are not allowed in libraries.

Configurable constants can be read directly just like regular constants:

```sway
{{#include ../../../../examples/configurable_constants/src/main.sw:using_configurables}}
```
