# forc-client

Forc plugin for interacting with a Fuel node.

## Initializing the wallet and adding accounts

If you don't have an initialized wallet or any account for your wallet you won't be able to sign transactions.

To initialize a wallet you can use `forc wallet init`. It will ask you to choose a password to encrypt your wallet. After the initialization is done you will have your mnemonic phrase.

After you have an initialized wallet, you can create an account for it by simply running `forc wallet new`. It will ask your password to decrypt the wallet before creating an account.

## Signing transactions using `forc-wallet` CLI

To submit the transactions created by `forc deploy` or `forc run`, you need to sign them first (unless you are using a client without UTXO validation). To sign a transaction you can use `forc-wallet` CLI. This section is going to walk you through the whole signing process.

> Disabling the UTXO validation, enables to send invalid inputs to emulate different conditions and by default `fuel-core` runs without UTXO validation. This means while your client is running without UTXO validation, you can run unsigned transactions. If you want to run `fuel-core` with UTXO validation, you can pass `--utxo-validation` to `fuel-core run`. If UTXO valdiation is enabled, unsigned transactions will return an error.

To install `forc-wallet` please refer to `forc-wallet`'s [github repo](https://github.com/FuelLabs/forc-wallet#forc-wallet).

1. Construct the transaction by using either `forc deploy` or `forc run`. To do so simply run `forc deploy` or `forc run` with your desired parameters. For a list of parameters please refer to the [forc-deploy](./forc_deploy) or [forc-run](./forc_run) section of the book. Once you run either command you will be asked the address of the wallet you are going to be signing with. After the address is given the transaction will be generated and you will be given a transaction ID. At this point CLI will actively wait for you to insert the signature.
2. Take the transaction ID generated in the first step and sign it with `forc wallet sign <transaction_id> <account_index>`. This will generate a signature.
3. Take the signature generated in the second step and provide it to `forc-deploy` (or `forc-run`). Once the signature is provided, the signed transaction will be submitted.

## Other useful commands of `forc-wallet`

- You can see a list of existing accounts with `list` command.

```sh
forc wallet list
```

- If you want to retrieve the address for an account by its index you can use `account` command.

```sh
forc wallet account <account_index>
```

> If you don't want to sign the transaction generated by `forc-deploy` or `forc-run` you can pass `--unsigned` to them.
>
> ```sh
> forc-deploy --unsigned
> ```
>
> ```sh
> forc-run --unsigned
> ```
