docs/src/forc/plugins.md, before:

# Plugins

Plugins can be used to extend `forc` with new commands that go beyond the native commands mentioned in the previous chapter. While the Fuel ecosystem provides a few commonly useful plugins (`forc-fmt`, `forc-lsp`, `forc-explore`), anyone can write their own!

Let's install a plugin, `forc-explore`, and see what's underneath the plugin:

```sh
cargo install forc-explore
```

Check that we have installed `forc-explore`:

```console
$ forc plugins
Installed Plugins:
forc-explore
```

`forc-explore` runs the Fuel Network Explorer, which you can run and check out for yourself:

```console
$ forc explore
Fuel Network Explorer 0.1.1
Running server on http://127.0.0.1:3030
Server::run{addr=127.0.0.1:3030}: listening on http://127.0.0.1:3030
```

You can visit http://127.0.0.1:3030 to check out the network explorer!

## Writing your own plugin

We encourage anyone to write and publish their own `forc` plugin to enhance their development experience.

Your plugin must be named in the format `forc-<MY_PLUGIN>` and you may use the above template as a starting point. You can use [clap](https://docs.rs/clap/latest/clap/) and add more subcommands, options and configurations to suit your plugin's needs.

Commit message:

Update forc plugin docs with a note on multi-command plugins
Previously, a user could be mistaken for thinking a single plugin could
only ever provide a single command. This note should help clarify that a
plugin can provide more than one command by specifying multiple
`[[bin]]` targets and uses the `forc-client` plugin as an example.

We should land #2440 first so that the `forc-client` plugin reference
makes sense.

docs/src/forc/plugins.md, after:

# Plugins

Plugins can be used to extend `forc` with new commands that go beyond the native commands mentioned in the previous chapter. While the Fuel ecosystem provides a few commonly useful plugins (`forc-fmt`, `forc-client`, `forc-lsp`, `forc-explore`), anyone can write their own!

Let's install a plugin, `forc-explore`, and see what's underneath the plugin:

```sh
cargo install forc-explore
```

Check that we have installed `forc-explore`:

```console
$ forc plugins
Installed Plugins:
forc-explore
```

`forc-explore` runs the Fuel Network Explorer, which you can run and check out for yourself:

```console
$ forc explore
Fuel Network Explorer 0.1.1
Running server on http://127.0.0.1:3030
Server::run{addr=127.0.0.1:3030}: listening on http://127.0.0.1:3030
```

You can visit http://127.0.0.1:3030 to check out the network explorer!

Note that some plugin crates can also provide more than one command. For example, installing the `forc-client` plugin provides the `forc deploy` and `forc run` commands. This is achieved by specifying multiple `[[bin]]` targets within the `forc-client` manifest.

## Writing your own plugin

We encourage anyone to write and publish their own `forc` plugin to enhance their development experience.

Your plugin must be named in the format `forc-<MY_PLUGIN>` and you may use the above template as a starting point. You can use [clap](https://docs.rs/clap/latest/clap/) and add more subcommands, options and configurations to suit your plugin's needs.
