docs/src/basics/variables.md, before:

# Variables

Variables in Sway are _immutable by default_. This means that, by default, once a variable is declared, its value cannot change. This is one of the ways how Sway encourages safe programming, and many modern languages have this same default. Let's take a look at variables in detail.

## Declaring a Variable

Let's look at a variable declaration:

```sway
let foo = 5;
```

Great! We have just declared a variable, `foo`. What do we know about `foo`?

1. It is immutable.
1. Its value is `5`.
1. Its type is `u64`, a 64-bit unsigned integer.

`u64` is the default numeric type, and represents a 64-bit unsigned integer. See the section [Built-in Types](./built_in_types.md) for more details.

We can also make a mutable variable. Let's take a look:

```sway
let mut foo = 5;
foo = 6;
```

Now, `foo` is mutable, and the reassignment to the number `6` is valid. That is, we are allowed to _mutate_ the variable `foo` to change its value.

## Type annotations

A variable declaration can contain a _type annotation_. A type annotation serves the purpose of declaring the type, in addition to the value, of a variable. Let's take a look:

```sway
let foo: u32 = 5;
```

We have just declared the _type_ of the variable `foo` as a `u32`, which is an unsigned 32-bit integer. Let's take a look at a few other type annotations:

```sway
let bar: str[4] = "sway";
let baz: bool = true;
```

If the value declared cannot be assigned to the declared type, there will be an error generated by the compiler.

Commit message:

Disallow non-literal config-time constants and add docs

docs/src/basics/variables.md, after:

# Variables

Variables in Sway are _immutable by default_. This means that, by default, once a variable is declared, its value cannot change. This is one of the ways how Sway encourages safe programming, and many modern languages have this same default. Let's take a look at variables in detail.

## Declaring a Variable

Let's look at a variable declaration:

```sway
let foo = 5;
```

Great! We have just declared a variable, `foo`. What do we know about `foo`?

1. It is immutable.
1. Its value is `5`.
1. Its type is `u64`, a 64-bit unsigned integer.

`u64` is the default numeric type, and represents a 64-bit unsigned integer. See the section [Built-in Types](./built_in_types.md) for more details.

We can also make a mutable variable. Let's take a look:

```sway
let mut foo = 5;
foo = 6;
```

Now, `foo` is mutable, and the reassignment to the number `6` is valid. That is, we are allowed to _mutate_ the variable `foo` to change its value.

## Type Annotations

A variable declaration can contain a _type annotation_. A type annotation serves the purpose of declaring the type, in addition to the value, of a variable. Let's take a look:

```sway
let foo: u32 = 5;
```

We have just declared the _type_ of the variable `foo` as a `u32`, which is an unsigned 32-bit integer. Let's take a look at a few other type annotations:

```sway
let bar: str[4] = "sway";
let baz: bool = true;
```

If the value declared cannot be assigned to the declared type, there will be an error generated by the compiler.

## Configuration-time Constants

It is possible to define and initialize constant variable in the manifest file `Forc.toml` of a Sway project. These constants then become visible and usable in the corresponding Sway program. Such variables are called configuration-time constants and have to be defined in their own section called `[constants]` in the manifest file. The syntax for declaring such constants is as follows:

```sway
{{#include ../../../examples/config_time_constants/Forc.toml:constants}}
```

Notice that each constant requires two fields: a `type` and a `value`.

> **Note**
> Because configuration-time constants are _constants_, they are immutable and cannot be made otherwise.

The constants defined above can now be used in a Sway program that uses the manifest file as follows:

```sway
{{#include ../../../examples/config_time_constants/src/main.sw}}
```

> **Note**
> Currently, it is only possible to define configuration-time constants that have [primitive types](built_in_types.md#primitive-types) and that are initialized using literals. This will change in the future.
