docs/book/src/forc/plugins/index.md, before:

# Plugins

Plugins can be used to extend `forc` with new commands that go beyond the native commands mentioned in the previous chapter. While the Fuel ecosystem provides a few commonly useful plugins (`forc-fmt`, `forc-client`, `forc-lsp`, `forc-explore`), anyone can write their own!

Let's install a plugin, `forc-explore`, and see what's underneath the plugin:

```sh
cargo install forc-explore
```

Check that we have installed `forc-explore`:

```console
$ forc plugins
Installed Plugins:
forc-explore
```

`forc-explore` runs the Fuel Network Explorer, which you can run and check out for yourself:

```console
$ forc explore
Fuel Network Explorer 0.1.1
Running server on http://127.0.0.1:3030
Server::run{addr=127.0.0.1:3030}: listening on http://127.0.0.1:3030
```

You can visit <http://127.0.0.1:3030> to check out the network explorer!

Note that some plugin crates can also provide more than one command. For example, installing the `forc-client` plugin provides the `forc deploy` and `forc run` commands. This is achieved by specifying multiple `[[bin]]` targets within the `forc-client` manifest.

## Writing your own plugin

We encourage anyone to write and publish their own `forc` plugin to enhance their development experience.

Your plugin must be named in the format `forc-<MY_PLUGIN>` and you may use the above template as a starting point. You can use [clap](https://docs.rs/clap/latest/clap/) and add more subcommands, options and configurations to suit your plugin's needs.

Commit message:

remove archived `forc-explore` plugin from CI and docs (#7257)
## Description
This repo was [archived ](https://github.com/FuelLabs/forc-explorer )in
July 2024 but was not removed from CI or the docs.
I have update the plugins section of the documentation from forc explore
to `forc-install` which is a
[tool](https://github.com/DarthBenro008/forc-install) from a community
member.

## Checklist

- [x] I have linked to any relevant issues.
- [ ] I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand
areas.
- [x] I have updated the documentation where relevant (API docs, the
reference, and the Sway book).
- [x] If my change requires substantial documentation changes, I have
[requested support from the DevRel
team](https://github.com/FuelLabs/devrel-requests/issues/new/choose)
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my
feature works.
- [ ] I have added (or requested a maintainer to add) the necessary
`Breaking*` or `New Feature` labels where relevant.
- [x] I have done my best to ensure that my PR adheres to [the Fuel Labs
Code Review
Standards](https://github.com/FuelLabs/rfcs/blob/master/text/code-standards/external-contributors.md).
- [x] I have requested a review from the relevant team or maintainers.

docs/book/src/forc/plugins/index.md, after:

# Plugins

Plugins can be used to extend `forc` with new commands that go beyond the native commands mentioned in the previous chapter. While the Fuel ecosystem provides a few commonly useful plugins (`forc-fmt`, `forc-client`, `forc-lsp`, `forc-migrate`), anyone can write their own!

Let's install a plugin, `forc-install`, and see what's underneath the plugin:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/darthbenro008/forc-install
cd forc-install
cargo install --path .
```

Check that we have installed `forc-install`:

```console
$ forc plugins
Installed Plugins:
forc-install
```

`forc-install` is a tool to manage GitHub dependencies in your Forc.toml file: For example, to install a sway library hosted on github:

```console
forc install https://github.com/user/sway-library
```

Note that some plugin crates can also provide more than one command. For example, installing the `forc-client` plugin provides the `forc deploy` and `forc run` commands. This is achieved by specifying multiple `[[bin]]` targets within the `forc-client` manifest.

## Writing your own plugin

We encourage anyone to write and publish their own `forc` plugin to enhance their development experience.

Your plugin must be named in the format `forc-<MY_PLUGIN>` and you may use the above template as a starting point. You can use [clap](https://docs.rs/clap/latest/clap/) and add more subcommands, options and configurations to suit your plugin's needs.
