# Variables

Variables in Sway are _immutable by default_. This means that, by default, once a variable is declared, its value cannot change. This is one of the ways in which Sway encourages safe programming, and many modern languages have this same default. Let's take a look at variables in detail.

## Declaring a Variable
Let's look at a variable declaration:
```
let foo = 5;
```

Great! We have just declared a variable, `foo`. What do we know about `foo`? 
1. It is immutable.
1. Its value is `5`. 
1. Its type is `u64`, a 64-bit unsigned integer.

Wait, what? `u64`? What's that crypic syntax about? See the section [Types](./Types.md) for more details on that. For now, just know that is the default numeric type.

We can also make a mutable variable. Let's take a look:
```
let mut foo = 5;
foo = 6;
```

Now, `foo` is mutable, and the reassignment to the number `6` is valid. That is, we are allowed to _mutate_ the variable `foo` in order to change its value.

## Type annotations
A variable declaration can contain a _type annotation_. A type annotation serves the purpose of declaring the type, in addition to the value, of a variable. Let's take a look:
```
let foo: u32 = 5;
```

We have just declared the _type_ of the variable `foo` as a `u32`, which is an unsigned 32 bit integer. Let's take a look at a few other type annotations:
```
let bar: str[4] = "sway";
let baz: bool = true;
```
If the value declared cannot be assigned to the declared type, there will be an error generated by the compiler. 
